Add SnippetsFilter guide (#2721)
nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric: site/content/how-to/traffic-management/snippets.md

---

> title: "Use the SnippetsFilter API"

Reviewer: After a full read through and looking at the NIC documentation, I think the use of Snippets in this doc is fine. Let's just make sure that we are using it correctly throughout the doc so it doesn't come across as a separate object.

weight: 800
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-000"
---

> This topic introduces Snippets and how to implement them using the `SnippetsFilter` API. It provides an example of how to use a Snippet for rate limiting, and how to investigate errors caused by misconfiguration.

Author: ah, this was wording directly from @ADubhlaoich , I do prefer "guide" more but I think I had it prior and he changed it to "topic", so I'll probably leave this change

---

## Overview

Snippets allow users to insert NGINX configuration into different contexts of the
NGINX configurations that NGINX Gateway Fabric generates.

Snippets are for advanced NGINX users who need more control over the generated NGINX configuration,

> and can be used in cases where Gateway API resources or NGINX extensions policies don't apply.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and can be used in cases where Gateway API resources or NGINX extension policies don't apply.
```

  - Understand how NGINX Gateway Fabric generates NGINX configuration so that a Snippet doesn’t interfere with the other features in the configuration.
- _Decreased robustness_. An incorrect Snippet can invalidate NGINX configuration, causing reload failures. Until the snippet is fixed, it will prevent any new configuration updates, including updates for the other Gateway resources.
- _Security implications_. Snippets give access to NGINX configuration primitives, which are not validated by NGINX Gateway Fabric. For example, a Snippet can configure NGINX to serve the TLS certificates and keys used for TLS termination for Gateway resources.

{{< note >}} If the NGINX configuration includes an invalid Snippet, NGINX will continue to operate with the last valid configuration. {{< /note >}}

{{< note >}} If you end up using Snippets and run into situations where an NGINX directive fails to be applied, please create an issue in the
[NGINX Gateway Fabric Github repository](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric). {{< /note >}}

## Setup

- To enable Snippets, [install]({{< relref "/installation/" >}}) NGINX Gateway Fabric with these modifications:

>   - Using Helm: set the `nginxGateway.snippetsFilters.enable` command line argument to true.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - Using Helm: set the `nginxGateway.snippetsFilters.enable=true` helm value.
```

Reviewer 3: Capitalize the H!

      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-22T23:43:11Z
      Message:               spec.rules[0].filters[0].extensionRef: Not found: v1.LocalObjectReference{Group:"gateway.nginx.org", Kind:"SnippetsFilter", Name:"coffee-rate-limiting-sf"}
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                InvalidFilter
      Status:                False
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
  .
  .
  .
   Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-22T23:43:14Z
      Message:               The route is accepted
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-22T23:43:14Z
      Message:               spec.rules[0].filters[0].extensionRef: Not found: v1.LocalObjectReference{Group:"gateway.nginx.org", Kind:"SnippetsFilter", Name:"tea-rate-limiting-sf"}
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                InvalidFilter
      Status:                False
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
  ```

>   The HTTPRoutes created earlier both reference `SnippetsFilter` resources that do not currently

Author: I think this is resolved now with previous changes, will let you resolve

      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-23T00:33:08Z
      Message:               All references are resolved
      Observed Generation:   2
      Reason:                ResolvedRefs
      Status:                True
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
```

Test that the `SnippetsFilter` is configured and has successfully applied the rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.

Send a request to tea:

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea
```

This request should receive a response from the tea Pod:

```text
Server address: 10.244.0.7:8080
Server name: tea-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
```

When processing a single request, the rate limiting configuration has no noticeable effect. Try sending
multiple requests.

```shell
for i in `seq 1 10`; do curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea; done
```

You should see all successful responses from the tea Pod, but they should be spaced apart roughly one second each as
expected through the rate limiting configuration.

> You've now used the `SnippetFilter` resource to configure two distinct rate limiting rules to different backend applications through the use of Snippets.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You've now used the `SnippetsFilter` resource to configure two distinct rate limiting rules to different backend applications through the use of Snippets.
```

Reviewer 3: You can probably drop "now" from the sentence, too.

Author: Going to keep the now if that's alright with you, seems a little weird without it and I think in transitions into the following statement: "For an alternative method..." a bit better

Reviewer 3: I made an edit suggestion for alternative phrasing following the preceding sentence.

---
title: "Use the SnippetsFilter API"
weight: 800
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-000"
---

This topic introduces Snippets, how to implement them using the `SnippetsFilter` API, and provides an example of how to use `SnippetsFilter` for rate limiting.

---

## Overview

Snippets allow users to insert NGINX configuration into different contexts of the
NGINX configurations that NGINX Gateway Fabric generates.

> Snippets are for advanced NGINX users who need more control over the generated NGINX configuration,

Reviewer: I prefer the stronger language here since snippets do come with a lot of risk. But I'll leave it up to @ADubhlaoich

> Snippets are for advanced NGINX users who need more control over the generated NGINX configuration,

Reviewer 3: I also prefer the stronger language, FWIW.

> and can be used in cases where Gateway API resources or NGINX extension policies don't apply.

Author: same comment as above with copying NIC's precedence

> and can be used in cases where Gateway API resources or NGINX extension policies don't apply.

Reviewer 3: +1 to above.

  ```text
  Server address: 10.244.0.7:8080
  Server name: coffee-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
  ```

  Send a request to tea:

  ```shell
  curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea
   ```

  This request should receive a response from the tea Pod:

  ```text
  Server address: 10.244.0.6:8080
  Server name: tea-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
  ```

  Before we enable rate limiting, try sending multiple requests to coffee:

  ```shell
  for i in `seq 1 10`; do curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee; done
  ```

  You should see all successful responses in quick succession as we configured any rate limiting rules yet.

---

## Configure rate limiting to the coffee application

Configure rate limiting to the coffee application by adding the following `SnippetsFilter`:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.nginx.org/v1alpha1
kind: SnippetsFilter
metadata:
  name: coffee-rate-limiting-sf
spec:
  snippets:
    - context: http
      value: limit_req_zone \$binary_remote_addr zone=coffeezone:10m rate=1r/s;
    - context: http.server.location
      value: limit_req zone=coffeezone burst=3 nodelay;
EOF
```

> The Snippet uses the NGINX `limit_req_module` to configure rate limiting for this HTTPRoute and the

Reviewer: This is where the Snippet term gets confusing for me. This is a SnippetsFilter with two snippets defined. Can we make that clear in the description?

Author: I combined this with the below 

>I think it would be beneficial to describe how the snippets in the referenced SnippetsFilter are injected into the NGINX config.

Let me know of your thoughts on the changes.

Reviewer: Resolving this in favor of newer comment

```shell
kubectl describe snippetsfilters.gateway.nginx.org coffee-rate-limiting-sf
```

You should see the following status:

```text
Status:
  Controllers:
    Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-21T22:20:22Z
      Message:               SnippetsFilter is accepted
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
    Controller Name:         gateway.nginx.org/nginx-gateway-controller
Events:                      <none>
```

To use the `SnippetsFilter`, update the coffee HTTPRoute to reference it:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: coffee
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - name: gateway
      sectionName: http
  hostnames:
    - "cafe.example.com"
  rules:
    - matches:
        - path:
            type: PathPrefix
            value: /coffee
      filters:
        - type: ExtensionRef
          extensionRef:
            group: gateway.nginx.org
            kind: SnippetsFilter
            name: coffee-rate-limiting-sf
      backendRefs:
        - name: coffee
          port: 80
EOF
```

> Verify that the coffee HTTPRoute's has been configured correctly:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify that the coffee HTTPRoute has been configured correctly:
```

```shell
kubectl describe httproutes.gateway.networking.k8s.io coffee
```

You should see the following conditions:

```text
Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-28T00:33:08Z
      Message:               The route is accepted
      Observed Generation:   2
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-28T00:33:08Z
      Message:               All references are resolved
      Observed Generation:   2
      Reason:                ResolvedRefs
      Status:                True
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
```

> Test that the `SnippetsFilter` is configured and has successfully applied the rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.

Reviewer: I think it would be beneficial to describe how the snippets in the referenced SnippetsFilter are injected into the NGINX config. For example, the snippet "limit_req_zone $binary_remote_addr zone=coffeezone:10m rate=1r/s;` directive is injected into the http context and the "limit_req zone=coffeezone burst=3 nodelay;" directive is injected into the location(s) for `/coffee`.

Author: See the above coment

Reviewer: resolving this thread since I created a new comment elsewhere

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.nginx.org/v1alpha1
kind: SnippetsFilter
metadata:
  name: tea-rate-limiting-sf
spec:
  snippets:
    - context: http
      value: limit_req_zone \$binary_remote_addr zone=teazone:10m rate=1r/s;
    - context: http.server.location
      value: limit_req zone=teazone burst=3;
EOF
```

This `SnippetsFilter` is the same as the one applied to the coffee HTTPRoute, however it removes the `nodelay` setting
on the `limit_req` directive. This forces a delay on the incoming requests to match the rate set in `limit_req_zone`.

Verify that the `SnippetsFilter` is Accepted:

```shell
kubectl describe snippetsfilters.gateway.nginx.org tea-rate-limiting-sf
```

You should see the following status:

```text
Status:
  Controllers:
    Conditions:
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-21T22:20:24Z
      Message:               SnippetsFilter is accepted
      Observed Generation:   1
      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
    Controller Name:         gateway.nginx.org/nginx-gateway-controller
Events:                      <none>
```

> 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

Update the tea HTTPRoute to reference the `SnippetsFilter`:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.networking.k8s.io/v1
kind: HTTPRoute
metadata:
  name: tea
spec:
  parentRefs:
    - name: gateway
      sectionName: http
  hostnames:
    - "cafe.example.com"
  rules:
    - matches:
        - path:
            type: PathPrefix
            value: /tea
      filters:
        - type: ExtensionRef
          extensionRef:
            group: gateway.nginx.org
            kind: SnippetsFilter
            name: tea-rate-limiting-sf
      backendRefs:
        - name: tea
          port: 80
EOF
```

> Verify that the tea HTTPRoute's has been configured correctly:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Verify that the tea HTTPRoute has been configured correctly:
```

      Reason:                Accepted
      Status:                True
      Type:                  Accepted
      Last Transition Time:  2024-10-28T00:33:08Z
      Message:               All references are resolved
      Observed Generation:   2
      Reason:                ResolvedRefs
      Status:                True
      Type:                  ResolvedRefs
```

Test that the `SnippetsFilter` is configured and has successfully applied the rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.

Send a request to tea:

```shell
curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea
```

This request should receive a response from the tea Pod:

```text
Server address: 10.244.0.6:8080
Server name: tea-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
```

When processing a single request, the rate limiting configuration has no noticeable effect. Try sending
multiple requests.

```shell
for i in `seq 1 10`; do curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea; done
```

You should see all successful responses from the tea Pod, but they should be spaced apart roughly one second each as
expected through the rate limiting configuration.

> You've now used the `SnippetsFilter` resource to configure two distinct rate limiting rules to different backend applications through the use of Snippets.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
This indicates that you've successfully used Snippets with the `SnippetsFilter` resource to configure two distinct rate limiting rules to different backend applications.
```

Author: this is great wording, thanks

For an alternative method of modifying the NGINX configuration NGINX Gateway Fabric generates through Gateway API resources, check out
our supported [first-class policies]({{< relref "overview/custom-policies.md" >}}) which don't carry many of the aforementioned disadvantages of Snippets.

---

> ## Further reading

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## See also
```

Just noticed this isn't adherent to our current templates.

> 

Reviewer: I think we need a section here or in our troubleshooting guide about how to diagnose issues with SnippetsFilters. Most importantly, we need to mention somewhere (probably here) that if the SnippetsFilter cannot be resolved, the route will return a 500 HTTP error code response.

Author: Added a troubleshooting section in the document, let me know if you think there's anything that needs to be adjusted or added/removed, thanks!

Reviewer 4: I think we should move this to [troubleshooting guide ](https://github.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/blob/main/site/content/how-to/monitoring/troubleshooting.md). Its better consolidated in one place and we don't generally follow the practice of having troubleshooting sections with our `traffic-management` guides

Author: True, though I did see https://docs.nginx.com/nginx-ingress-controller/configuration/ingress-resources/advanced-configuration-with-snippets/ and how they put a troubleshooting guide in with the snippets that is separate from all of their other troubleshooting guides. this also breaks their practices too it seems (I just checked some of their guides and they don't have troubleshooting guides in them) 

@ADubhlaoich thoughts?

Reviewer: Really great troubleshooting section!

I personally like the troubleshooting info to be close to the documentation on the feature, but I'll defer to @ADubhlaoich.

Reviewer 3: I like the in-page troubleshooting section, since if anything goes wrong during set-up, it'll be close to where they need it.

As a design pattern we're trying to slowly move troubleshooting information to the pages where it's relevant: standalone troubleshooting pages can occasionally feel like the equivalent of a FAQ. If you need one, it's a sign information might be unclear elsewhere.

General guidance on how to troubleshoot or debug things remains permissible on their own pages (Such as enabling or configuring logging, as an example).

---
title: "Use the SnippetsFilter API"
weight: 800
toc: true
docs: "DOCS-000"
---

> This topic introduces Snippets, how to implement them using the `SnippetsFilter` API, and provides an example of how to use `SnippetsFilter` for rate limiting.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This guide introduces Snippets, how to implement them using the `SnippetsFilter` API, and provides an example of how to use `SnippetsFilter` for rate limiting.
```

- _Security implications_. Snippets give access to NGINX configuration primitives, which are not validated by NGINX Gateway Fabric. For example, a Snippet can configure NGINX to serve the TLS certificates and keys used for TLS termination for Gateway resources.

{{< note >}} If the NGINX configuration includes an invalid Snippet, NGINX will continue to operate with the last valid configuration. No new configuration will be applied until the invalid Snippet is fixed. {{< /note >}}

---

## Best Practices when using SnippetsFilters

There are endless ways to use `SnippetsFilters` to modify NGINX configuration, and thus there are many ways to generate invalid or undesired NGINX configuration.
We have outlined a few best practices to keep in mind when using `SnippetsFilters` to keep NGINX Gateway Fabric functioning correctly:

1. Using the [Roles and Personas](https://gateway-api.sigs.k8s.io/concepts/roles-and-personas/) defined in the Gateway API, `SnippetsFilter` access

>    should be limited to Cluster operators. Application developers should not be able to create, modify, or delete `SnippetsFilters` as they affect other applications.

Author: Hm, I think its right on my side. Line 51 wraps around while in 49 and 50 I manually added a line break and they are indented to line up with each other.

   ```

- Test the configuration:

  You can send traffic to the coffee and tea applications using the external IP address and port for NGINX Gateway Fabric.

  Send a request to coffee:

  ```shell
  curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee
  ```

  This request should receive a response from the coffee Pod:

  ```text
  Server address: 10.244.0.7:8080
  Server name: coffee-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
  ```

  Send a request to tea:

  ```shell
  curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea
   ```

  This request should receive a response from the tea Pod:

  ```text
  Server address: 10.244.0.6:8080
  Server name: tea-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
  ```

  Before we enable rate limiting, try sending multiple requests to coffee:

  ```shell
  for i in `seq 1 10`; do curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee; done
  ```

  You should see all successful responses in quick succession as we configured any rate limiting rules yet.

---

## Configure rate limiting to the coffee application

> Configure rate limiting to the coffee application by adding the following `SnippetsFilter`:

Reviewer: I'm concerned the wording and organization of this section implies a 1-1 relationship between a SnippetsFilter and a route. 

The intention of SnippetsFilters is that they are common configuration provided by the cluster operator or maybe even a devops team.  This person or team creates SnippetsFilters for stuff like rate-limiting or access control, that can be used by any application team. The app dev just has to reference the SnippetsFilter in their route. 

Can we model that intention in this doc through a bit of reorganization?

I'm thinking:

1. Create rate limiting SnippetsFilters -- one with nodelay and one without
2. Make sure SnippetsFilters are valid
3. App developer for coffee applies the nodelay SnippetsFilter and makes sure it works
4. App developer for tea spplies the regular SnippetsFilter and makes sure it works

Author: Added reorganization changes, also changed so the regular rate limiting SF occurs first, then we showcase the nodelay setting. Felt more logical like that to me

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.nginx.org/v1alpha1
kind: SnippetsFilter
metadata:
  name: no-delay-rate-limiting-sf
spec:
  snippets:
    - context: http
      value: limit_req_zone \$binary_remote_addr zone=no-delay-rate-limiting-sf:10m rate=1r/s;
    - context: http.server.location
      value: limit_req zone=no-delay-rate-limiting-sf burst=3 nodelay;
EOF
```

This `SnippetsFilter` defines two Snippets to configure rate limiting for this HTTPRoute and the
backend coffee application. The first one injects the value: `limit_req_zone \$binary_remote_addr zone=no-delay-rate-limiting-sf:10m rate=1r/s;`

> into the `http` context. The second one injects the value: `limit_req zone=no-delay-rate-limiting-sf burst=3 nodelay;` into the location(s) for `/coffee`.

Author: Looks good to me, let me address the reorganization of the doc and we'll see what this turns out to look like

   ```

- Create HTTPRoutes for the coffee and tea applications:

  ```yaml
  kubectl apply -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/nginxinc/nginx-gateway-fabric/v1.4.0/examples/snippets-filter/httproutes.yaml
   ```

- Test the configuration:

  You can send traffic to the coffee and tea applications using the external IP address and port for NGINX Gateway Fabric.

  Send a request to coffee:

  ```shell
  curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee
  ```

  This request should receive a response from the coffee Pod:

  ```text
  Server address: 10.244.0.7:8080
  Server name: coffee-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
  ```

  Send a request to tea:

  ```shell
  curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea
   ```

  This request should receive a response from the tea Pod:

  ```text
  Server address: 10.244.0.6:8080
  Server name: tea-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
  ```

  Before we enable rate limiting, try sending multiple requests to coffee:

  ```shell
  for i in `seq 1 10`; do curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/coffee; done
  ```

>   You should see all successful responses in quick succession as we configured any rate limiting rules yet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  You should see all successful responses in quick succession as we have not configured any rate limiting rules yet.
```

Author: thanks

---

## Create Rate Limiting SnippetsFilters

Configure a rate limiting `SnippetsFilter` named `rate-limiting-sf` by adding the following `SnippetsFilter`:

```yaml
kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: gateway.nginx.org/v1alpha1
kind: SnippetsFilter
metadata:
  name: rate-limiting-sf
spec:
  snippets:
    - context: http
      value: limit_req_zone \$binary_remote_addr zone=rate-limiting-sf:10m rate=1r/s;
    - context: http.server.location
      value: limit_req zone=rate-limiting-sf burst=3;
EOF
```

> This `SnippetsFilter` defines two Snippets to configure rate limiting. The first Snippet injects the value: `limit_req_zone \$binary_remote_addr zone=rate-limiting-sf:10m rate=1r/s;`

Reviewer: Do you think "will inject" instead of "injects" makes more sense? I'm on the fence. It does fit with the sentence on line 152 "This SnippetsFilter will limit..."

Author: ah gosh I'm on the fence too, but adding in an additional two "will" seems annoying to read hahaha

curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea
```

This request should receive a response from the tea Pod:

```text
Server address: 10.244.0.6:8080
Server name: tea-76c7c85bbd-cf8nz
```

When processing a single request, the rate limiting configuration has no noticeable effect. Try sending
multiple requests.

```shell
for i in `seq 1 10`; do curl --resolve cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT:$GW_IP http://cafe.example.com:$GW_PORT/tea; done
```

You should see some successful responses from the tea Pod, however there should be multiple `503` responses such as:

```text
Request ID: 890c17df930ef1ef573feed3c6e81290
<html>
<head><title>503 Service Temporarily Unavailable</title></head>
<body>
<center><h1>503 Service Temporarily Unavailable</h1></center>
<hr><center>nginx</center>
</body>
</html>
```

This is the default error response given by NGINX when the rate limit burst is exceeded, meaning our `SnippetsFilter`
correctly applied our rate limiting NGINX configuration changes.

---

## Conclusion

You've successfully used Snippets with the `SnippetsFilter` resource to configure two distinct rate limiting rules to different backend applications.

> In this example guide, the Cluster Operator would have played the role in creating and applying the `SnippetsFilter` resources shown in [Create Rate Limiting SnippetsFilters](#create-rate-limiting-snippetsfilters)

Reviewer: nice!

Author: thanks!
